Well, the first thing you want to do is you want to find out what g p
a like What's the minimum G p A. That you need for the programs to what
you want to apply. So most programs have a minimum. G p a on, but
it may be something like 3.6. And so what that essentially means is
that if you're G p A isn't 3.6, don't bother applying. Now they say
that, but that's not necessarily true. So if your G p. A. Is less
than whatever it is the school's you're applying to want, you have a
couple of options. Um, if your GP is pretty close. So let's say the
minimum G p A is 3.6, you have a 3.5. You might want to just take a
few more classes and get a few mores and raise your G p A. That way.
Um, I would only recommend that strategy if your overall G p. A. Is
really, really close to whatever the cut office. Um, if it's farther
from the cut off, then one of the things that you can do is you can
take a look at your own transcripts and see, you know, why is your
g p l o? Oftentimes the story is that, you know, sometimes usually
it's early on in college, you know, maybe the second or third, or even
first semester When you know people are still adjusting to being
college students. They have a semester to where they don't do great
in some classes, and so they may have some CS or DS. Or, you know,
even if, um and those air really dragging down their overall G p A.
Even if they recovered. And if you look at you know, the past couple
of years, they've got nothing but straight A's. Those early bad grades
are going to kind of drive down their overall G p A. Because it's
a mean, um, so one of the things if that's the case that your in your
overall GP is low. But maybe like your last, your most recent work
is really, really good. Um, you can address that and most of the
time on your transcript, for instance, it will calculate your overall
G p A. But it will also just calculate your GP within your major so
if your GP within your major is really high, then in that case, I
would address that in your personal statement and say something like,
You know, even though my overall GP is low, if you look at my transcripts,
you can see that it was due to this, you know, one semester.
And this is what was going on. You know, maybe there's a reason it
was low that semester. Um, you know, But in the last two years, you
can see that I've got a 4.0, average you know, in my major. And so
that's kind of a sign that you've grown in the last couple of years.
You've matured into a really good student. Another thing that you can
dio is you can see if you can make a personal connection at this
program. So this is where you're going to talk to your mentors. Um,
talk to other people in your network and see if anybody knows anybody
you know, at the program toe what you want to apply that you could
maybe have a conversation with and say, Hey, you know, I'm really interested
in your program. Here's my problem, you know, and Maybe they
might have some advice for you. Or maybe they'll just say, you know,
we'll keep an eye out from your application or something like that.
Um, you may also wanna have your letter writers directly address
this in their letters, so make them aware of this issue. I'm applying
to a school, my overall GPS and high enough. But, you know, here's
my GP for the last two years. It's much better. Could you specifically
talk about this in my letter and say, You know what a good student
I am and that kind of stuff and most letter writers, I mean, we
want to write letters that are going to help you succeed. And so that
information is totally fine to give to give to your letter writers.
So, you know, those were some of your options. If your G p A is a
little bit lower, then you know what you want it to be for. For applying
Thio graduate schools